# Home

Welcome to Toon Deobfuscated, your central hub for documentation and tooling
for the Eneco Toon thermostats, also known as Engie Electrabel Boxx and Viesgo
Toon in other countries. This device was originally developed by Quby, a Dutch
company specializing in smart home technology. They ultimately got acquired by
Eneco.

This documentation is aimed at providing comprehensive information about the
Toon thermostat's internal workings. The core audience includes developers,
engineers, and enthusiasts interested in understanding and potentially
contributing to the community-run ecosystem surrounding the Toon thermostat.

## Motivation
The official Toon thermostat platform has proven to be a useful tool for
managing home heating and energy consumption.

In terms of hardware, even the oldest models are still very capable,
offering features like Z-Wave, Thermostat interface and a large touchscreen,
and a processor that can run a Linux distribution. However, older models no
longer receive updates, and official support has been discontinued.

In terms of repurposing, there is a great community of developers still
working on extending the functionality of the Toon thermostat, even to this
day.

However, as time goes by, the community tools have gone stale, links no longer
always work, and documentation is outdated. It also depends on Eneco / Quby's
official infrastructure, which will eventually be shut down.

## Goals
The goal of this documentation is to provide a comprehensive and up-to-date
resource for anyone seeking to repurpose the Toon thermostat. This
documentation is compiled from various sources, including community
contributions, official documentation, and reverse engineering efforts.

## Early stages

This documentation is currently in its early stages. We are actively working
on expanding the content to cover various aspects of the Toon thermostat.

Initially, this documentation will mostly focus on the now-defunct Toon v1,
but as there are commonalities with the Toon v2, we will also include
information about the newer model where relevant.

This will likely be expanded when the Toon v2 will become defunct as well.
